Hey everyone and thanks for jumping back
into the cryptoverse.
Today we're going to talk about Bitcoin
and how it has now swept the low from
February of 2026. If you guys like the
content, make sure you subscribe to the
channel, give the video a thumbs up, and
also check out the sale on into the
cryptoverse premium at into the
cryptoverse.com.
Let's go ahead and jump in. So, we've
talked about this for a while and I I'll
go through, you know, my thoughts, but
one of the ideas is that often times it
can take four or five months for Bitcoin
to set new lows in bare markets. And
because they can take that long, it can
often feel like the bare market is over,
even when it's not. And if you look at
probably one of the best comparisons
that we have, February of 2018, Bitcoin
set a low and then the next low wasn't
set for about 19 weeks. And that
occurred in June. And then you look at
this cycle, we set a low in February,
and then we set another low, a lower low
17 weeks later, again in June. And so
there are there continue to be
similarities, right? You have February
lows
in both 2018
and 2026.
You then have higher lows in late March,
early April. You then go up to the 200
day moving average. Right? We can switch
this over to the daily.
We then go up to the 200 day moving
average
in both cases.
And then from there, Bitcoin goes and
puts in a new low in June. Now, this was
what I said was sort of my base case
coming into this month that we would
likely go below the February low. And I
think one of the reasons for thinking
that was just thinking that a lot of
times in these bare markets, people
think it's different and and it's
usually not. And by setting a new low,
it it basically just means that, you
know, the bare market was really never
over. And and it sort of it it sort of
redeems everyone who was not willing to
start bulling
again. It's not like it's rocket science
here. I was just sort of recognizing
that, hey, Bitcoin normally gets these
rallies up to the 200 day moving average
in bare markets and and that you should
expect Bitcoin to to get rejected from
it. Of course, when it happens, people
blame Sailor. People blame a lot of a
lot of different things. Most most
importantly, they don't ever blame
themselves uh for for misreading the
market. But this is how Bitcoin has
normally played out in midterm years. In
fact, I know it feels different, but
when you look at the year-to- date ROI
of Bitcoin compared to the average of
prior midterm years, we're literally
exact basically right at that average.
On average, at this point in midterm
years, Bitcoin is down about 31%.
Right now, Bitcoin is down about 31 32%
about 32%. So, this is a pretty normal
midterm year for Bitcoin. The reason it
feels different is because since Bitcoin
topped on apathy rather than euphoria,
the big drop at the end of last year
wasn't nearly as much
because it was an apathetic top. So,
this drop was only about a 35%
in the at the end of last year. And if
you compare that to say a euphoric top
like 2017, it was a 70% drop. Now, had
Bitcoin gone to a euphoric zone, it
would have been closer to maybe like
200K. And if Bitcoin had gone to 200K
and then dropped to 60K, it would have
been a lot more similar to 2018. But
because we didn't get that final
euphoric rally, there was no rotation
into alts. You could argue we didn't get
the euphoric rally because of monetary
policy and how strict and how tight it's
been. Therefore, there was no rotation
into altcoins. And so, it feels
different
because that final rotation never came.
But really, it feels a lot like 2019.
Because as I've said, there are a lot of
similarities between 2026 and 2018, but
there also are similarities between 2026
and 2019 and and going into 2020. And
one of the some of those main
similarities include the fact that there
was no rotation after Bitcoin topped.
Bitcoin also topped on apathy rather
than euphoria. And Bitcoin topped in
both cases two months before
quantitative tightening ended. In 2019,
Bitcoin topped in June. QT ended in
August. In 2025, Bitcoin topped in
October. QT ended in December. If you
look at the terminal price for Bitcoin,
what you'll notice is that both in 2019
and in 2025, Bitcoin did not reach the
terminal price. Again, it's because it
topped on apathy. When you look at the
crypto or when you look at the social
risk or sorry, that's the trady one. If
you look at the social risk,
what you'll see again is that retail
never really showed up this cycle. You
know, they they also didn't really show
up in 2019 either. They didn't really
show up this cycle as well. And so those
similarities continue to remain intact.
So then the question is where do we go
from here? Right? Where do we go from
here?
It's a difficult question to ask
to a large extent because when you're in
the middle of a capitulation, it's so
hard to know, you know, where where the
low is. Like no one knows. Um we can
guess, but but the truth is is that no
one knows. And we're sort of at a
crossroads right now. And if I had to
guess, what'll likely happen is not
either of the two examples that I'm
going to give you, but probably
something somewhere in between. Okay, so
there's two things we have to reconcile.
Is this 2018 or is it 2019?
I have news for you. This may come as a
surprise.
It's 2026. Okay. So, what we can do is
take elements from 2018 and 2019
to better understand what is going on.
Okay? Take elements from both.
In 2018,
Bitcoin found support at 6K
approximately plus or minus, you know, a
couple thousand or so in February and in
June.
In 2026,
so far we have found support at 60K in
February, but it's too early in June to
know if this will be support or not.
It's too early to know. It could be. I'm
not against that being support, but it's
simply too early to know.
In 2019,
Bitcoin also found support at around 6K.
But what's really interesting about 2019
is that if you compare the current bare
market to the 2019 postappathetic top
bare market, you get a chart that looks
like this.
And so when you look at a chart like
this, you can see there are a lot of
similarities.
And so what happened in 2019 going into
2020 is we had a crisis with the
pandemic. Bitcoin had a massive
capitulation.
It then justified much looser monetary
policy and then everything changed.
Okay.
Visually this looks kind of similar,
right? It looks kind of similar, but it
also looks similar to the average of
prior midterm years as well. It does.
And if you look
um let me just reload this. If you look
at Bitcoin in 2026 compared to 2018, you
can see the lows occur at the same time
in February, higher low in late March,
early April, a top in May, and then you
bleed out into June. it structurally
it's it's kind of playing out the same
way, right? It's playing out the same
way. But then you look at 2019 and
you're like, well, it looks very similar
to that as well. So which is it, right?
Which is it?
My guess
is that it's not either. My guess is
it's somewhere in between where
maybe we drop but not as much as as 2020
because I do think there's a good chance
that the four-year cycle low will occur
later this year. And if Bitcoin were to
simply nuke down a lot further, then I
would probably pivot my view and say
that the low could occur earlier in the
year. If Bitcoin finds support at 60K,
then it still opens up that idea of it
of it playing out later on. And and and
then I I still think that could make
some sense. If Bitcoin drifts below 60K
for, you know, a couple of weeks or so,
I could see it then slightly deviating
from 2018, but then probably not getting
quite as bad as it did get in the
pandemic, right? I mean, it just it
seems like maybe it it doesn't have to
get quite that bad.
So, that's where I am. I will say this,
though, no one knows what's going to
happen in the market. I I certainly
don't. And it's better to react to what
the market is giving us rather than to
tell everyone, you know, what has to
happen because the reality is again, no
one actually knows. My best guess is
that Bitcoin sets a low in June and then
has a counter trend rally and then has
another low in October. I would argue
that there is a high likelihood that the
October low would be lower than the June
low. However, if there is a massive
capitulation in June, then the October
low could actually be a higher low. But
at the current prices, I think it would
be more likely to be a lower low. Let me
show you an example. Okay,
with the stock market, we can learn a
lot from the stock market. You know,
stop saying that we only have a few data
points for Bitcoin in the four year
cycle. It's not true. We have plenty of
data points for the four cycle in other
markets if people are willing to look at
other markets. But there are examples in
history where Bitcoin or sorry where the
stock market might actually bottom in
June like in June of 1962
and then the October low was a higher
low.
So and this was a midterm year, right?
And then in the next cycle, the stock
market just bottomed in October. And in
1974, we bottomed in October. In 1970,
we had a local low, the low in May. And
then higher low as higher lows as we got
into July and August. And then by
October, we were much higher. But that
low was a sweep of the prior low, right?
It was a sweep of the prior low. So, I
think the things to the the sort of the
the most likely paths to consider right
now for Bitcoin are one where it just
simply plays out like 2018. We find a
low at plus or like 60K around that
level and if we do then we still likely
will have another low in October if we
hold here.
If we don't hold here and Bitcoin
continues to melt down through June,
through like mid to late June or
something, then depending on how low it
goes would then depend
influence whether I think that would be
the actual market cycle bottom. For now,
I have to stick to my guns and say the
most likely low would in fact be
October. And no amount of mental
gymnastics in my mind can change that
unless there's a massive price
capitulation. So for now I think it
makes sense to defer to timebased
capitulation and say that the most
likely low will occur in October.
However, if there is a big drop and all
the onchain indicators reset and
everything basically resets, then at
that point I would pivot away from
timebased capitulation to pricebased
capitulation. But the reason I don't
treat price-based capitulation as my
main signal right now is because it
seems like a fool's errand to know
exactly when Bitcoin might get such a
drop. Right? It feels like a fool's
errand to say that all right, it's gonna
it's going to crash like it did in the
pandemic because we're not in a pandemic
right now. This is not, you know, we're
not in like this massive surge in the
unemployment rate. The unemployment rate
just came in and it was still at 4.3%.
All I'm saying is that I think Bitcoin
is more likely to evolve like the
average of prior midterm years, not like
2019, 2020.
But here's the catch. Here's the catch.
And this is why I think it's a mix of
2018 and 2019, a slight mix.
Because if you look at the average of
prior midterm years and look at one
standard deviation on that average, what
it shows you is that while we are at the
average right now,
later in the month, the average would be
a little bit lower. it would be about
45% down from the yearly open and 45%
down from the yearly open. Let's go find
where that yearly open was in January.
Uh right about here, right? So, let me
just get it on the yearly so I I'm not
sort of eyeballing it. So, the yearly
open was at around 87 and a halfK. So,
you know, about 45% down from that um
would put Bitcoin, let me let me zoom in
here so I I get it exactly. I don't want
to mess this up. 45% down from the
yearly open, you know, kind of puts you
around that around that 50k level. So,
not 40, but but 50. And and again, I I
can't say for sure we're going to go
there. If you if you look at the
year-to- date ROI, it's not like we've
perfectly tracked it. There's definitely
been periods where we've outperformed it
and so maybe we'll outperform it again.
But you can see that on average Bitcoin
goes down to about 45%
below the yearly open by about mid June.
Now in 2014,
you know, you can see we came down to
these levels and then we rallied up out
of it. But I would argue that Bitcoin
already did that for this cycle where it
kind of rallied up out of it for a while
and now it's falling back in. And even
when it did that in 2014,
you can see that still eventually fell
back in to that October low. If you
compare it to 2018, you can see that
we'd be actually a lot lower from the
yearly open, right? It was actually a
lot lower. And then if you compare it to
2022, you can also see that this is
right around the time that there was a
big drop in the market. So when people
ask, you know, and and I try to figure
out, all right, is this 2018? Is it
2019? The answer is it's neither. It's
2026 and there's elements of both.
Structurally, you can see there are a
lot of similarities between 2018
and 2026. It's just a 10x 10x higher,
but
we topped on apathy like 2019.
So,
it is it is different in in in some
sense. And so, what I'm saying is what
if we simply continue following
approximately the year-to- date ROI
average of prior midterm years where
maybe it goes a little bit lower, but
then it doesn't outright collapse and
perhaps we leave the final low for Q4.
If I see the market evolve differently,
if I see the market capitulate down much
much further, then I would be willing to
pivot a lot sooner.
If Bitcoin just holds 60K,
then I would probably assume there would
be one final low in Q4. So, it's a lot
of if then statements, right? If 60k
holds
then Q4
lower low
and if we go sub 60K like down into the
low 50s
then you could still have a lower low in
Q4. If we capitulate like 2020 then Q4
would likely be a higher low.
One of the things to consider for
Bitcoin is when you look at where bare
markets historically bottom,
we'll get to the bounce price in a
future video, but Bitcoin historically
has gone below the realized price in
bare markets. Okay? You can see it did
it in 2011. It did it in 2014 and in
2018 and even in 2020 and also in 2022.
And right now the realized price for
Bitcoin is around 53 to 54K.
That doesn't mean it has to go there
immediately. In 2014, it took until
October to go below it. In 2018, it took
until November to go below it.
In 2022, we went below it in June. So, I
don't know exactly when we're going to
go below it, but I would say there's a
good chance we'll likely see Bitcoin hit
the realized price at some point if
history is any indication. That would be
my guess. Um, as this is how the cycle
does in fact normally play out. That
doesn't mean you have to wait to go buy
Bitcoin. Usually, the right strategy in
my opinion for Bitcoin is DCAing after
the June low. You don't have to time the
bottom, right? I mean, most of the money
is made in just DCAing during these
uptrends, right? After after they get
moving, you don't have to buy the bottom
and then if you miss the bottom, it's
not like you can't buy, but oftent times
buying Bitcoin in the second half of the
midterm year ends up working out a lot
better than buying it in the first half
of the midterm year. If you buy it in
the first half of the midterm year, you
likely get wrecked. When you buy it in
the second half of the midterm year, you
tend to get much better entries. And
while you might be at a loss for a
little while on some of those entries,
the market then tends to come back the
following year. So when I look at the
chart,
Bitcoin has swept the low. This was
always the base case that we would sweep
the low. The only question now is how
much lower does it go? And we can't
really know the answer to that question
for a couple more weeks. You know, I
think it's important to
allow the June low to form, look for
confirmation that it's in, and then we
can start talking about what comes next.
But I can't sit here with a lot of
confidence and tell you whether the low
is in or not, right? I just I don't
know. I I simply do not know. And if it
follows the average of prior midterm
years, it'll go a little bit lower.
If it follows 2018, it'll find support
now. If it follows 2019, it'll
capitulate a lot more. I think it's I
think it's somewhere in between. That's
my guess. So, I think it's somewhere in
between. I don't think it's either of
them exactly.
I think it's somewhere in between those.
And I think that is the way you use
prior bare markets to say, look, it's
not like 28. It's not a carbon copy of
2018. It's not a carbon copy of 2019,
but there's elements of both of those
bare markets in the current bare market.
There's elements of both. And so, what
if what we're seeing right now has
properties that are similar to both of
those bare markets. So, we'll see if it
plays out like that. Thank you guys for
tuning in. Make sure you subscribe, give
the video a thumbs up, and again, check
out the sale on into the cryptoverse
premium at into the cryptoverse.com.
I'll see you guys next time. Bye.